Hi again and welcome to the next section of this masterclass, which is hand gesturing.
Now, it's not it's not enough to just use your face to convey your point.
It looks very boring if I just keep talking like this.
So I want to use hand gesturing to convey my points.
So how do you do that?
Just like in video interviews.
In person interviews would be very similar.
The only difference is that you would either be standing or sitting in front of the interviewer and
they can see you in your entirety and they can actually interact with you physically.
Right.
So as far as hand gesturing goes, except when you're using welcoming gestures like this, like open
arms gestures, or when you're greeting someone with a hug, for instance, then you don't actually
extend your hands out.
But I would recommend a few things.
First of all, keep your palms facing up, not down.
If you've seen courtroom dramas, then a lot of lawyers use this language when they're trying to convince
a jury on.
Effect.
So when they talk to a jury, then they showed this to show that they're not hiding anything.
Their palms are clean.
But when you turn them down, then that tells the listener that you're trying to hide something or you're
trying to bury something and you don't want to do that.
You want to show that.
You have nothing to hide, and you're you're there for an open discussion.
Remember, an interview is an open discussion.
Your employer, your potential employer has a problem.
They didn't they they decided that by interviewing someone, by giving someone a job, that problem
will be solved.
And why are you there?
To show that you can solve that problem for them.
And that's the bridge.
The interview is the bridge.
That's it.
Try to use open palmed gestures still to come across as open and forthcoming.
This means you're trying to hide something.
And if you have your palms out like this.
This way.
Then you're saying stop.
This is obstructing.
So stop.
Don't do that.
Keep open bonds and imagine.
This is your space in front of you.
So from shoulder to shoulder, all the way to your chest or whatever you can see during the interview.
And you don't want to go beyond this.
Otherwise it looks very awkward.
So when you're conveying a point is of point bullet points, for example, then you want to divide this
visual area into different parts.
So let's say I have three things to convey.
Then my first thing I would start with my left.
Point number one.
Point number two.
Point number three.
What I just did there was I broke down this space in front of me into three clear areas.
So they're easy to visualize.
You don't have to use any imagination.
You're making it easy for your interviewers to see and grasp the information quicker, because studies
show that most people are visual and when you show them through hand gestures, what the data, when
you show them through hand gestures, what you're trying to convey, then people tend to grasp much
more of that.
If you use that in a non chaotic way, if you use your space in an organized way.
So another way to do that would be to use your fingers.
Point number one.
Point number two.
Point number three.
But when you're using your fingers, they're more like stating rather than conveying information, you're
stating commands for.
For example, I want you to do this and then I want you to do this, and then I want you to do this
and.
As opposed to different areas.
And when you want to come across as being an expert, then one of the hand gestures, this is a power
move is to bring your fingers together like a steeple like this and just touch them gently as you're
talking.
If you've seen Shark Tank or Dragon's Den in Canada, then you may have seen Mr. Wonderful do that.
And this means this shows the interviewer that you know what you're talking about and that you are an
expert.
And when you press your fingers and fingertips too tight, then that indicates nervousness.
So you don't want to show nervousness.
You just want to show that you know what you're talking about like this.
This is not submissive.
It just it's it's it's very similar to this gesture when you however, when you cross your fingers like
this, when you test your palms and and you're doing this, then that's a sign of humility.
So when you're conveying something, when you're conveying a point, then you want to have open body
language.
And also this helps because when you're conveying something, then it's it can be inferred that you
know what you're talking about.
So at this moment, we'll talk about conveying versus convincing.
So there are two kinds of questions, objective and subjective.
So when you have an objective question, then what?
What could the response be?
Data.
Fact.
Yes or no.
Binary things like that.
Things that don't involve feelings.
And when something is subjective, then it is personal to you, and it could be personal to the interviewer
in a different way.
So when you're trying to convey information, then you want to you want to think about what the question
is.
Are you trying to convey information or are you trying to convince the interviewer?
If your interviewer ask you a question like How do you feel?
Or What do you think about or questions like that?
Then those are not data driven questions.
They involve you to talk about your feelings and your thought process.
Then you're trying to convince them.
And when you talk about questions like.
How many years did you work at this company or what exactly were your roles and responsibilities?
What did you do in 2021?
Why was there an employment gap and things like that?
Then you're talking about facts, you're talking about things that happen, so there's less convincing
involved there and more convenient information.
And with that, we will talk about a few other power moves.
If you have if you've ever seen the former German chancellor, Angela merkel, she she makes a diamond
like this and stands away in 99% of her poses that you see of her pictures.
You see her standing like this.
And in fact, it's called the Merkel diamond.
And that is it's the same thing.
It's a steeple, but then inverted.
It conveys the same information.
It shows that you are an expert.
You know what you're talking about.
It's a power move now when someone.
When your interviewer, for example, is talking to you and conveying information or telling you convincing
that what they do is exciting and they're excited by the events in the story that they're telling you,
then it's always useful to lean forward.
And when you lean forward like this, then you can also choose to move your hands out of the way.
So you're you're displaying vulnerability and you're telling the interviewer that not only are you invested
in the story, you're actively listening, but you're also open to everything that they have to tell
you.
So you're you're actively listening, but at the same time, you're not creating an obstruction.
I mean this.
Of course, if I were to sit like this, then that would be really relaxed.
But it's also a power move because you're you're exposing your.
Of Fenton area.
And you're not creating any barriers.
But at the same time, you're in a super relaxed pose.
And that tells your listener, of course, you wouldn't do this in an interview, but it's just useful
to know that tells whoever is in front of you.
That you are not afraid.
You're in a position of extreme comfort.
Once again, think about comfort versus discomfort.
And I would highly recommend at this stage that before your video interview.
Create an account with Zoom or teams or Google meet whatever and.
Practice answering and looking at yourself in front of the camera so you don't have to use a mirror.
You can do this with Zoom because then it will be real and it will be exactly the way it would be in
an actual interview is have just yourself in the meeting and record yourself doing it.
Record yourself answering this.
Now, in some of the previous exercises we talked about how you you make a list of things that have
displayed different ways.
You've had the opportunity to display different qualities like teamwork, commitment, dedication,
focus.
Correcting a mistake that you made, for example, and you frame your responses according to that and.
You can practice delivering each of these in front of the camera and record it and play it back for
yourself so you can practice your body language.
You can practice delivering it the right way, stressing the right words at the right time.
Now, for any person to try to survive in the job market, three things have to exist.
A problem has to exist, which in this case is the job description, the job opening.
Second, you have to have the solution to that problem, which you must be a match.
And so when you know that you are a match for the job description, then you want to present it in the
right way.
And one of the ways to do it is through tone of voice, which means that you're stressing the right
words at the right time.
Thank you for joining me here and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.